Gradio 5 security blog post (#2399)
huggingface/blog: gradio-5-security.md

---
title: "A Security Review of Gradio 5" 
thumbnail: /blog/assets/gradio-5-security/thumbnail.png
authors:
- user: abidlabs
- user: pngwn
---

# A Security Review of Gradio 5

**We audited Gradio 5 so that your machine learning apps are safe!**

In the past few years, [Gradio](https://github.com/gradio-app/gradio/) has become the default way to build machine learning web applications in Python. In just a few lines of code, you can create a user interface for an image generation app, a chatbot, or any other kind of ML app _and_ share it with others using Gradio’s built-in share links or [Hugging Face Spaces](https://huggingface.co/spaces).

```py
import gradio as gr
def generate(seed, prompt):  
    ...  
    return image
    
# gr.Interface creates a web-based UI
gr.Interface(
    generate,   

>     inputs=
>     [gr.Slider(), gr.Textbox()],  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    inputs=[gr.Slider(), gr.Textbox()],  
```

    outputs=[gr.Image()]
).launch(share=True)  
# share=True generates a public link instantly
```

Our goal with Gradio is to allow developers to build web applications that work great out-of-the-box for machine learning use cases. This has meant letting you, as a developer, easily build applications that:

*   Scale easily to large numbers of concurrent users
*   Are accessible to as many users as possible
*   Provide consistent UI, UX, and theming

> *   Work reliably across a large number of browser and devices

Reviewer: ```suggestion
*   Work reliably across a large number of browsers and devices
```

    
...even if you are not an expert in scaling, accessibility, or UI/UX!

> Now, we’re adding **web** **security** to this list. We asked [Trail of Bits](https://www.trailofbits.com/), a well-known cybersecurity company, to conduct an independent audit of Gradio, and we fixed the security issues that they discovered ahead of the Gradio 5 release. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Now, we’re adding **web** **security** to this list. We asked [Trail of Bits](https://www.trailofbits.com/), a well-known cybersecurity company, to conduct an independent audit of Gradio. The security issues they discovered were all fixed ahead of the Gradio 5 release.
```

> This means that machine learning **apps that you build with Gradio 5** **will follow best practices when it comes to web security** without any significant changes to your code.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This means that machine learning apps that **you build** with Gradio 5 **will follow best practices when it comes to web security** without any significant changes to your code.
```

Maybe, otherwise it'll be a long bolded sentence.

> ### **Why a security audit?**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Why a security audit?
```

> In the past couple of years, the Gradio team has worked with the community to patch security vulnerabilities as they are discovered. But as Gradio’s popularity has grown (with >6 million monthly downloads on PyPi and >470,000 Gradio apps on Hugging Face Spaces), ensuring security has become even more important.

Reviewer: This is great, maybe we can move it up to the intro section?

So in Gradio 5, we decided to take a different approach -- do a _preemptive_ security audit of the Gradio codebase so that your machine learning applications built with Gradio 5 are safe by default. 

We asked Trail of Bits to conduct an independent and comprehensive audit of Gradio. Their team of experts in AI and Application Security identified security risks in the Gradio codebase in 4 general scenarios:

*   Gradio apps running locally
*   Gradio apps deployed on Hugging Face Spaces or other servers
*   Gradio apps shared with built-in share links 
*   Supply chain vulnerabilities originating from the Gradio CI pipeline

> ![](https://huggingface.co/datasets/huggingface/documentation-images/raw/main/blog/gradio-5/security-scenarios.png)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
![](https://huggingface.co/datasets/huggingface/documentation-images/resolve/main/blog/gradio-5/security-scenarios.png)
```

Then, we worked closely with Trail of Bits to identify mitigation strategies for each of these risks. Gradio’s simplicity and ease of use, while beneficial for developers, also presented unique security challenges, as we didn’t want developers to need to set up complex security measures like CORS and CSP policies.

> By the end of the collaboration, we fixed all of the security risks that were identified by Trail of Bits and all of these fixes, validated by Trail of Bits, are included in the Gradio 5.0 release. While it is impossible to prove the absence of security vulnerabilities, this is a major step in giving reassurance that your Gradio apps are safe.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
By the end of the collaboration, we fixed all of the security risks that were identified by Trail of Bits. All the fixes were validated by Trail of Bits, and are included in the Gradio 5.0 release. While it is impossible to prove the absence of security vulnerabilities, this is a major step in giving reassurance that your Gradio apps are safe.
```

> ### **Major findings**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Major findings
```

> In this section, we’d like to share the major security vulnerabilities that were discovered by Trail of Bits corresponding to the 4 scenarios above. In the interest of transparency and the spirit of open-source, we are making the full security report public, and more details for each of these issues can be found in the report.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We outline below the major security vulnerabilities that were discovered by Trail of Bits corresponding to the 4 scenarios above. In the interest of transparency and the spirit of open-source, we are making the full security report public, and more details for each of these issues can be found in the report.
```

Should we add a link to the report then?

    
*   **TOB-GRADIO-11**: Lack of robust encryption in communications between the frp-client and frp-server, allowing attackers in a position to intercept requests (the ones from steps 6 and 7 in the diagram above) to read and modify the data going to and from the frp-server.
    

**Supply chain vulnerabilities originating from the Gradio CI pipeline**

*   **TOB-GRADIO-25**: Several GitHub Actions workflows in the Gradio repository use third-party actions pinned to tags or branch names instead of full commit SHAs. This could allow malicious actors to silently modify actions, potentially leading to tampering with application releases or leaking secrets.
    
*   Separately, a [GitHub security researcher reported](https://github.com/gradio-app/gradio/security/advisories/GHSA-48pj-2428-pp3w) that our GitHub actions could allow untrusted code execution and secret exfiltration if an attacker triggered a workflow and cleverly dumped the memory of GitHub runners. 
    

> ### **Going forward**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Going forward
```

> We are committed to ensuring that as we continue to develop Gradio 5 (and we have lots of plans!), we do so in a manner that prioritizes security so that we can do our part in making machine learning applications better and safer! 

Reviewer: Maybe something like this could be the last paragraph
